---
sidebar_position: 4
id: ArchLinux
title: Arch Linux
---
>A lightweight and flexible Linux distribution that tries to "Keep It Simple", for Fydetab Duo.

## Preview1
- **Build:** preview1-20221219

### Release note

**Hightlight**
Initial release of Arch Linux port for Fydetab Duo.
Useful things to note:

- Default login credentials: ```alarm/root```: ```alarm```
- Using [iwd](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/iwd) to connect to the internet:
- This release of Arch Linux does not bundle with a default Desktop Environment, if you want one, you need to install it yourself


**Known issues**
It's still in the early porting stage; the following features are still under development:

- Desktop Environment UI is still software rendering, hardware acceleration is unavailable


###  Download links
- [Direct link](https://download.fydeos.io/fydetabduo/fydetab_duo-archlinux-update-20221219.img.xz)
- [Mirror link]( https://fydeos-my.sharepoint.cn/:u:/g/personal/fyde_fydeos_partner_onmschina_cn/EdVSYqlugmdCkhcRd0NUK5MB5e7yv2nhXpFsjJrErH2ElQ?e=34F1RR)

**SHA256**: `71b1cf3c6fa4aea650c877eb9fd91eaeb179b53562a534eebce69abe7766570a`

## ðŸ“š Tutorial: Installing KDE Plasma Desktop

This is an initial test installation guide for the Fydetab Duo. In this tutorial, we cover some basic steps to:

* Connect to Wi-Fi

### ðŸ”§ Flash Image Under Linux

Assuming:
* The Fydetab Duo is connected and in loader mode (see [Fydetab Duo Wiki](https://wiki.fydetabduo.com/flashing_the_fydetab_duo)).
* The `upgrade_tool` is located under `./foundation-rk3588/rk3588-image-maker/Linux_Upgrade_Tool/upgrade_tool`.
* The SHA256 sum validated, extracted `fydetab_duo-archlinux-update-20221219.img` image is in the current folder:

```bash
sudo ./foundation-rk3588/rk3588-image-maker/Linux_Upgrade_Tool/upgrade_tool uf ./fydetab_duo-archlinux-update-20221219.img
```

âš ï¸ **Warning:** Serious neck stiffness possible as the tty is _not_ rotatable with:
```bash
echo 3 > /sys/class/graphics/fbcon/rotate_all
```

Login with:
```bash
Username: root
Password: alarm
```
Double your tty font size:
```bash
setfont -d
```

### ðŸŒ Set Up Your Wi-Fi (WLAN0)

Follow the instructions under [Arch Linux Wiki - Iwd](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Iwd). Start by adding some required configuration details:

```bash
mkdir /etc/iwd
nano /etc/iwd/main.conf
```

Insert:
```ini
[General]
EnableNetworkConfiguration=true

[Network]
EnableIPv6=true
```
(If you don't have/want IPv6, set `EnableIPv6=false`)

Enable the Iwd network service:
```bash
systemctl enable --now iwd
```

Edit the connection details with:
```bash
iwctl
```

1. If you do not know your wireless device name, list all Wi-Fi devices:
    ```bash
    [iwd]# device list
    ```
    the name for your Wi-Fi device should be listed as `wlan0`, Adapter should be `phy0`
2. If the device or its corresponding adapter is turned off, turn it on:
    ```bash
    [iwd]# device wlan0 set-property Powered on
    [iwd]# adapter phy0 set-property Powered on
    ```
3. Initiate a scan for networks (this command will not output anything):
    ```bash
    [iwd]# station wlan0 scan
    ```
4. List all available networks:
    ```bash
    [iwd]# station wlan0 get-networks
    ```
5. Connect to a network:
    ```bash
    [iwd]# station wlan0 connect SSID
    ```
Exit iwctl with `crtl` + `d`

Check if your wlan0 device now has an IP address:
```bash
ip --brief address show
```
ðŸ’¡ Hint: Now you should be able to access the device via SSH...

### ðŸ§© Resize the Root Partition

In this tutorial, only one root partition is available and used, limited to 12 GB. Increase the size of the root partition to the available space (12 GB), as the image comes with only 2 GB of preconfigured available space:
```bash
resize2fs /dev/mmcblk0p1
```

### ðŸ”„ Install Updates

Adapt `sources.list`:
```bash
nano /etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist
```

Select a fitting mirror near your location and update with the Arch package manager `pacman`:
```bash
pacman -Syyu
```

Accept the defaults when prompted. During the update, kernel-related files may trigger warnings as they cannot be found and are likely _not_ part of the Arch installation (supplied via image, kernel 5.10 is installed).

Check the kernel via:
```bash
uname -a
```
Expected output:
```bash
Linux alarm 5.10.110-fyde #145 SMP Mon Dec 19 07:00:43 UTC 2022 aarch64 GNU/Linux
```

Reboot:
```bash
shutdown -r 0
```

### Set your local time

in `/usr/share/zoneinfo` there are all possible locations listed. You can set your local time via e.g.

```bash
ln -s /usr/share/zoneinfo/Europe/Berlin /etc/localtime
```

### Set your language preference / locale
1. select one or more locales in `/etc/locale.gen`. afterwards execute `locale-gen`
2. enable the primarly locale via e.g.
```bash
localectl set-locale LANG=en_US.UTF-8
```
otherwise, you can also check and uncomment any available locale in `/etc/locale.gen`

### ðŸ–¥ï¸ Install KDE Plasma

Follow the instructions at [Arch Linux Wiki - KDE](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/KDE). As of July 2024, this will install Plasma 6.1.

Install KDE Plasma, display manager, KScreen for display adjustment, Bluetooth, and PackageKit for "Discover" software management integration xorg-xrandr for SDDM screen rotation:
```bash
pacman -S plasma-meta sddm sddm-kcm kscreen bluez bluez-utils packagekit, xorg-xrandr
```
Accept the defaults when prompted or adjust options to your preference.

To adjust screen rotation in SDDM, edit `/usr/share/sddm/scripts/Xsetup`, and add

```bash
xrandr -o right
```
in `/var/lib/sddm/state.conf`, you have to add
```bash
[Last]
# Name of the last logged-in user.
# This user will be preselected when the login screen appears
User=alarm


# Name of the session for the last logged-in user.
# This session will be preselected when the login screen appears.
Session=/usr/share/xsessions/plasmax11.desktop
[X11]
DisplayCommand=/usr/share/sddm/scripts/Xsetup
```

Start and enable SDDM and Bluetooth:
```bash
systemctl enable --now sddm bluetooth
```

A reboot may be required.

You will now be greeted by the Plasma SDDM login screen. Currently, as per the configuration above, X11 is preselected. Wayland sessions will only show a black screen.

Once logged in (initial password `alarm`), you can adjust the Plasma desktop settings to rotate.

Additional software can now be installed via Discover.

### ðŸ“ TODO

As this is a _very limited_ environment still, some tasks need to be done, both for the user and on the hardware support, which is limited by the shipped Linux kernel:

* Partitioning: _only_ 2 GB root partition, resized to 12 GB. Additional partitioning required & files need moving.
* Rotate tty.
* Replace Iwd.
* Wayland does not run yet.
* Hardware: Bluetooth & camera don't work -> kernel build + kernel modules for Bluetooth, but how?
* Hardware: Display is _only software rendering supported_ -> kernel build + kernel modules for display, but how?
* Hardware: Other hardware e.g., accelerometer, NPU ...
