---
sidebar_position: 1
slug : manage_user_and_browser_application_policies
title: Manage User and Browser Application Policies
---
As an IT administrator for your company, you have the ability to effectively manage various aspects of application programs through the FydeOS Management Cloud. This comprehensive platform allows you to control application programs for enterprise users, browsers, and self-service terminals. With a range of installation policy options and advanced permission control features, our platform empowers enterprises to efficiently and securely manage their application programs. Here are some key highlights of the features we offer:

- **Customizable Application and Extension Installation Policies**: Tailor the types of applications and extensions that can be installed, providing precise control over the software resources available within the company to meet diverse business needs.

- **External Extension Installation Control**: Safeguard your company's internal network and data security by granting or restricting users from installing external extensions sourced from third-party platforms.

- **Granular Extension Blocking based on Permissions**: Set different permission levels based on user roles, departments, and other criteria to allocate usage permissions for specific extension programs, enabling meticulous permission management.

- **Mandatory Program Installation**: Ensure that essential software is universally installed across all user devices by creating a mandatory program list, guaranteeing that all necessary core applications are present.

- **Centralized Management of Autostart Programs**: Efficiently manage autostart programs within the company, ensuring that critical applications are quickly loaded during device startup, thus enhancing productivity.

By utilizing these features, you will gain comprehensive control over your company's application programs, minimizing information security risks, and maximizing operational efficiency. Choose the FydeOS Management Cloud for a professional and streamlined approach to application management.

For more advanced functionalities and detailed step-by-step instructions, please visit the FydeOS Management Cloud to explore and experience the full range of capabilities.