---
sidebar_position: 4
slug : fydeos_subscription
title: Q&A:FydeOS Subscription
---

### Why Choose a Paid Subscription to FydeOS?

Purchasing a paid subscription to FydeOS offers significant benefits for managing FydeOS devices through the FydeOS Management Cloud. With a subscription, you gain access to essential features that enable you to effectively administer devices, configure settings, and enforce policies for both users and devices within your organization.

### How to Obtain a Free Trial of the FydeOS Management Cloud?

To experience the full capabilities of the FydeOS Management Cloud, you can request a free 30-day trial of FydeOS Business+ by completing the form available [here](https://fydeos.io/enterprise-solution/request-demo/). The trial includes access to all features of the FydeOS Management Cloud and allows you to register up to 50 devices. If you require additional device registrations beyond the trial limit, you will need to purchase a new subscription.

### Understanding the Difference between Basic and Business+ Subscriptions

FydeOS offers two subscription options: Basic and Business+. The Basic subscription provides device-level access to FydeOS, allowing devices to utilize the operating system. In contrast, the Business+ subscription offers an enhanced experience by providing comprehensive device management, user management, and application management features through the FydeOS Management Cloud. For more detailed information, please refer to the pricing details available [here](https://fydeos.io/enterprise-solution/pricing/).

### Upgrading from Basic to Business+ Subscription

If you have a Basic subscription and wish to access the advanced features offered by the Business+ subscription, you can easily upgrade. Simply navigate to the FydeOS Management Cloud dashboard, locate the "Purchase Subscription" option, select "Upgrade," and follow the provided instructions to complete your upgrade order. Please note that you will be required to pay the price difference between the Basic and Business+ subscriptions when upgrading.

### How to Utilize Your Purchased Subscription

Upon purchasing a subscription, you can begin utilizing its benefits by registering your FydeOS device. For detailed instructions on how to register your device, please refer to the instructions available on this page. Each successfully registered FydeOS device will consume one subscription allocation from your purchased plan.