---
id: BredOS-gnome
title: GNOME Desktop on Fydetab Duo
order: 3
---


The gnome-desktop can be installed with the AUR package `gnome-meta`.
Install it with `yay -S gnome-meta`.

---

For proper operation you should also switch to GDM upon installation. That can be done by running:
```
sudo systemctl disable lightdm
sudo systemctl enable gdm
```

Only Gnome wayland is at all supported.

## Screen rotation fix
**If** on your Fydetab the screen rotates incorrectly, you need to install and configure the `Screen Rotate` extension.

### 1. Install Extension Manager
Run `sudo pacman -S extension-manager` to install it, and open the application.

### 2. Install Screen Rotate
After opening the app, tap `Browse` > `Search` > Type `Screen rotate` > Install `Screen Rotate` by `shyzus`.

### 3. Configure Screen Rotate
Head back to the `Installed` page of Extension Manager and tap the settings cogwheel to open the extension's settings panel.
Then you should increase the value of `Set orientation offset` to 1.

## Landscape stylus usage
The stylus will only point correctly when the screen is rotated vertically by default.
To set this to instead work horizontally:

### 1. Open `/etc/udev/rules.d/fydetab.rules`
To open the file, run:
```
sudo nano /etc/udev/rules.d/fydetab.rules
```

### 2. Append the configuration line
At the bottom of the file, add:
```
SUBSYSTEM=="input", ENV{ID_INPUT_TABLET}=="1", ENV{LIBINPUT_CALIBRATION_MATRIX}="0 1 0 -1 0 1 0 0 1"
```

Then press Ctrl + S to save and Ctrl + X to quit.

### 3. Reboot
After reboot the pen will work correctly.

If you mistakenly tried gnome setting's stylus calibration, remove the calibration data by running:
```
dconf reset -f /org/gnome/desktop/peripherals/tablets
```