---
id : operating_system_options
title: 💻 Operating system options
---

Fydetab Duo is designed to run FydeOS by default. However, you may also boot and run other open-source operating systems.

## Factory default OS: FydeOS quick start

When you first press the power on button on your Fydetab Duo and boot it up for the first time, you will be greeted by FydeOS.

### Out-of-box experience

- **Activation wizard**: On the first boot, FydeOS will initiate what is usually called the "out-of-box experience" - a fancy way of saying "activation wizard".
- **Information requirements**: During OOBE, it will ask for certain information such as your language, keyboard layout, wifi details, user account details and credentials. Most of these should be self-explanatory.

### Account options

- **FydeOS Account**: You can choose from using a FydeOS account, a Google account, or a completely offline "local account" to continue using FydeOS.
    - **Account creation**: If you have yet to have a FydeOS or a Google account, you are also given the option to create one right on the page.
    - **Cloud functionalities**: Using an online account with FydeOS will enable extra cloud-powered functionalities, for example, profile and preferences synchronisation.

### Starting your journey

- **Browser app**: Once you are landed on the desktop, you can start your journey by launching the "browser" app to access your favourite web apps.
- **Android subsystem**: FydeOS will also prompt you to activate the "Android subsystem" by sending you a system notification; following the instructions and accepting the Terms will enable you to utilise the built-in Android support to run thousands of Android apps.
- **FydeOS Store**: Do check out the FydeOS Store; it's a good starting point to install some of the essentials.

### Advanced features

- **Linux subsystem**: If you know your way around the Linux command line, you can also enable the Linux subsystem within FydeOS to utilise a fully self-contained Debian 12 environment.
    - **Access**: You can find it under the "FydeOS settings" - "Developer" tab.

### Support and help

- It's recommended to familiarise yourself with the [FydeOS help website](https://fydeos.io/help), and I am sure the contents will help you navigate through the daily usage of FydeOS.

## Alternative operating systems
[You can find them here.](/category/-os-release-board)
- openFyde
- Debian
- Arch Linux
- Ubuntu Touch
- AOSP

## Other alternatives (no guarantees)
- [Android GSI ROMs](https://github.com/LinuxDroidMaster/Fydetab-Duo-DroidMaster-wiki/blob/main/Documentation/Android/Installing_GSI.md)


## Community Projects
- [Unofficial Fydetab Duo wiki by DroidMaster](https://github.com/LinuxDroidMaster/Fydetab-Duo-DroidMaster-wiki)