---
sidebar_position: 1
slug : managing_users
title: Managing Users
---


This tutorial will guide you on how to add, move, and delete users on the FydeOS Management Cloud to meet the needs of your enterprise organization.

## **Adding Users**

To add new users to your enterprise, you need to send them an invitation.

### 1. **Access the User Management Interface**

In the sidebar of the FydeOS Management Cloud, click the "Users" button to access the user management interface.

### **2. Click "Invite Users"**

In the top left corner of the user management interface, click the "Invite Users" button to open the invite user dialog.

### **3. Fill in User Information**

In the invite user dialog, fill in the following information as prompted:

- Select the appropriate organizational department to categorize the user into the respective team.
- Write a concise and friendly welcome message to provide a warm welcome to the new user.
- Fill in the user's details, including their "email" and "name."

### **4. Bulk Import Users (Optional)**

If you need to import users in bulk, you can download the import template, fill in the user information according to the template format, and then upload it to the system.

## **Deleting Users**

To remove users from your enterprise organization, follow the steps below:

### **1. Access the User Management Interface**

In the sidebar of the FydeOS Management Cloud, click the "Users" button to access the user management interface.

### **2. Locate the User to be Deleted**

In the user list, find the user you want to delete.

### **3. Click "Delete"**

In the row of the target user, click the "Delete" button, and then click "Confirm" in the pop-up confirmation dialog to successfully delete the user. Please note that deletion cannot be undone, so please proceed with caution.

## **Moving Users**
**Comming Soon**