---
sidebar_position: 2
slug : managing_user_policy
title: Managing User Policy
---

This tutorial provides comprehensive guidance on adding, moving, and deleting users on the FydeOS Management Cloud, catering to the needs of enterprise organizations.

The FydeOS Management Cloud offers efficient and granular user permission control, along with robust network security policies. Leveraging these features, you can ensure the security of company information and boost employee productivity. Here are the key functionalities we provide:

1. **Usage Time Management**: Set usage time for user devices, ensuring optimal device utilization during working hours.
2. **Website Isolation Policies**: Employ targeted measures such as website whitelisting and blacklisting to restrict user access to specific websites, mitigating the risk of information leakage.
3. **Network Proxy Configuration**: Configure proxy servers in accordance with your company's network policies to ensure secure transmission of all network traffic.
4. **Screenshot and Screen Recording Control**: Enable or disable the screenshot and screen recording functionalities for users as needed, safeguarding sensitive information from unauthorized exposure.
5. **Cookie Settings Management**: Precisely manage cookies on user devices to prevent privacy breaches and enhance network security.
6. **Extension Control**: Approve and manage browser extensions permitted for installation on employee devices, ensuring a secure and efficient working environment.
7. **Download Location Control**: Set the default location for file downloads, facilitating centralized file management and tracking.
8. **URL Interception and Filtering**: Employ custom policies to effectively block malicious websites and harmful content, ensuring a secure and stable network environment for employees.

By utilizing the FydeOS Management Cloud, you can exercise comprehensive control over employee devices and network activities, ensuring the security of company information and optimizing overall operational efficiency. Feel confident in employing our solution to provide the best experience for your enterprise.